hey guys this is a spontaneous video at
several points in this video I am going
to make reflections that are directly
relevant to veganism and the politics we
have to think about in relation to
ecology etc these days but the core
issue what I'm talking about here this
is drawing on and reflecting on a little
bit more broadly my own life experience
political and otherwise open with an
anecdote I had a boss when I was working
in Thailand and he was born and raised
in Germany and he was a young child
during the Nazi period but he had many
memories of the period in the immediate
aftermath of World War two when the
country was being rebuilt and when many
people include his including his own
parents were looking back on their
recent memories of what the Nazi period
had been now his mother he said to me
was not an intelligent woman she was
sort of a bumpkin from a small town who
really did not understand what the Nazi
Party was when she became a member so
she was among the many millions of
people who joined partly out of
ignorance and the truth of that will be
shown in the rest of this anecdote one
day she read a story in the newspaper
and it's interesting that this was in a
German newspaper in Nazi Germany during
the Nazi period a story responding to
claims made by some foreign countries
that the Holocaust was happening of
course it wasn't called the Holocaust
yet but that there were accusations that
the Germans were engaged in mass murder
of Jews various other ethnic minorities
and political enemies of the state of
course anyone that Nazis wanted to kill
in death camps labor camps etc she went
completely guilelessly she went to a
public meeting of the Nazi Party in her
town as she was a member and she held up
this article she clipped out of the
newspaper and said passionately that she
knew this wasn't true that she knew the
Holocaust couldn't
because um our people wouldn't do this
she said she made the claim that she
didn't believe her fellow party members
or her fellow countrymen would do this
because she felt that they were good
people that we were good people and now
the reaction of this is also very German
culturally you kind of have to live in
Germany to to picture this but everyone
in the room was silent her fellow
audience members because she was
speaking from the audience and also the
people on the stage who were in charge
of the meeting or what have you they all
sort of rumpled up their faces you know
and looked at her with derision as if to
say you must be an idiot but the
response was simply this kind of
scolding severe silence and she got the
message not only was the Holocaust
actually happening but everyone in that
room was aware it was happening now this
is an interesting anecdote in many ways
it challenges the myth that nobody knew
you know many people pretended they had
no idea what's going on and some I mean
hey some people had no idea but a lot of
people did know what was going on um but
it also punctures the myth that there
was no way to show defiance because she
responded to that happening at that
meeting by quitting the Nazi Party very
publicly and angrily and quitting for
the reason that she felt the Holocaust
was immoral that killing people in this
way of this kind of political activity
was and I said when she wasn't arrested
and she wasn't punished she carried on
being a housewife and raising the young
child who would later become my boss and
who would tell me this story this
delusion are people good people who are
the good people and the notion that good
people don't do bad things and that
therefore what you're telling me must be
wrong or what I read in the newspaper
what must be wrong or maybe that's
happening in another country but it's
not happening here these are really
powerful delusions that motivate an
animate
in life and they come up in connection
to veganism under many headings they
definitely come up in connection to
veganism you know when you meet people
who think who really believe oh yes in
China the fur industry does these cruel
and terrible things to animals but we
would never do that in Sweden we would
never do that in Norway or Finland you
know I don't know in this country people
treat animals with respect
unlike Russia right next door or China
far away I grew up with one of the most
absurd of these nationalistic
distinctions being foisted on me my
parents were of the generation who
protested against the Vietnam War and
their view of the world and their view
of the United States of America was very
much shaped by the historical experience
of the Vietnam War and I can remember I
mean they they said casually with with
no source
I mean they'd never read the setting
where I know whatever made the claim
that somehow the terrible things about
the meat industry would be true in the
United States but not in Canada that
somehow Canada's meat industry was
morally blessed um in some fundamental
way that our people wouldn't do this and
our governments wouldn't do this right
but by the way the the notion that
Canada didn't get any blood on its hands
in Vietnam is also false but that's that
that's a story for another time I
remember there was one day a very good
news story I remember it being on the
radio on our government controlled radio
CBC radio this was the government
criticizing itself in reality and they
went out and and interviewed workers in
slaughterhouses as well as interviewing
government ministers and trade experts
because the question was not the animal
rights but had to do with standards of
Hygiene and international trade and
economic factors it was many other
facets of the meat industry being
examined not the animal rights but the
animal rights came up because the actual
conditions of slaughter were part of the
story and everyone from the kind of
you know bureaucrat experts down to the
guys who actually work with guys who
drive the trucks I remember they
interviewed some of the guys who drive
the trucks because they knew the
conditions inside the buildings they
were collect the various buildings they
were collecting the meat from very saw
houses everyone at every level confirmed
that the conditions in Canada were much
worse than the United States at that's
high that in the United States there
were some standards being enforced for
everything from hygiene to you know the
rapid nests with which animals were
killed or what-have-you and that in
Canada situation was much worse now
these things can change a lot within ten
years they can change even more in 20
years I have no reason to think they've
changed but for me as a kid what made
the biggest impression was that when I
reported this to my mother I said you
know like what you've been telling me is
not true and you know what people say in
general is not true our slaughterhouse
conditions our meatpacking conditions in
Canada are not better than the United
States they're actually much worse and
my mother responded with absolute denial
and again it's this notion the same
notion I just quoted from the history of
Germany our people wouldn't do this our
nation wouldn't do this you know or
wanting to believe that our people are
good people and that good people don't
do bad things this came up in the long
long interview I did with Zarya very
briefly I mentioned the problem of
nationalism it's come up in a couple of
my videos in the books of Song of Ice
and Fire
it's a fictional book series that's now
a famous TV show called Game of Thrones
there's a dialogue at one point where
someone reflects I'm paraphrasing
friendly but it points out something
this isn't presented as terrifying but
it's just presented as an aspect of
human nature that is terrifying it
comments on the type of men engaged in
atrocities during war during the wars
their happiness books and so you know
these are the type of guys these guys in
this unit the army
once every couple of years there will be
a war and they'll rape and pillage
and torture and burn down villages and
you know fight knife to knife blade to
blade and then the war will end and
they'll go home and wash their hands and
take care of their wives and children
and work in a mill or on a farm and
become completely normal and
indistinguishable from the rest of the
population
now those books the the reason why
they're interested me is exactly this
type of very ashen reflection on human
nature war or politics and morality
which is a small percentage of the text
there are very very long books but you
get those moments every so often that
really resonate with me
I think resonate with other people who
have a sort of political science
background the horrors of war are made
more profound by the fact that the
people who commit those atrocities are
mostly not different from you and I they
mostly are normal people or to put it
another way if they're given the
opportunity to be normal people they
will be even if they're abnormal even if
there's somewhat terrible people and one
of the most extreme examples Anu of that
the publisher I used to work in the
publishing industry I was an editor of
nonfiction books academic books but non
fact history politics stuff my publisher
that employed me in in Thailand they had
they had a first-person account from one
of the torture houses in Cambodia under
communism this is one of the buildings
where people were arrested tortured and
of course executed interrogated and so
on but basically everyone was killed
nobody was ever released as innocent I
don't I don't think there are any
exceptions but anyway this was a book
written it was based on interviews with
a guy who had survived in in this within
this facility now after the war was over
this is a famous facility famous death
camp
where people were executed huge numbers
the the guy who wrote this book he
became an employee of the death camp
when it was turned into a museum it was
turned into a memorial to record this
history and to provide a place of
mourning people to go to and there
weren't that many people carrying out
the executions there was one guy who was
the main torturer an executor on the you
know other people killed people in
smaller numbers but there one guy who
really did the bulk of the killing and
there were no trials there was no
justice there were at the end of the war
people just stopped fighting and this
guy the main executor the main torturer
who had been a you know terror and
suffering and death to so many people
you know he came to visit the museum as
a normal guy and the main executive the
guy who was in charge and gave the
orders he did eventually decades later
go on trial but so many decades had
passed between the atrocities and the
trial that he was able to indicate that
as soon as the war was over he went back
to living like a normal guy he actually
did some charity work to but you know
the notion the two things that first
there's the notion of our people then
there's the notion of good people and
then the third step is the delusion that
good people don't do bad things and on
the contrary good people do bad things
and bad people do good things and life
is full of those kinds of contradictions
and of course if you have the detachment
or if you have the nihilism you can take
the next next step of saying there
really is no distinction between our
people and other people there are just
people now I am NOT saying this because
I don't believe in personal
accountability I think I mean I raised
this again in the conversation with
Zarya but that that part of conversation
go anywhere I think it's actually really
interesting to to ask the question of
should people be morally accountable for
killing animals whether it's
participating in vivisection experiments
that are proven to be immoral and cruel
like some of these really
examples or killing animals for leather
or what have you I think there is a
really interesting question about
actually putting people on trial and at
the end of you know the Cambodian
genocide one of the many great failings
I feel was exactly that there there were
no trials there was no accountability
huge number of people died in combat but
for people who had blood on their hands
who didn't die in combat um a lot of
them went on to positions of privilege
in the the new order that was
established brokered by the United
States China and other other foreign
partners and of course above all Vietnam
Vietnam controlled the destiny of
Cambodia in many ways for many years if
you've been playing a drinking game of
having a shot of vodka every time I
mention Cambodia you're now you're now
thoroughly drunk so the other big topic
I wanted to link this to I had a
conversation with Jenny who is one of my
subscribers on on patreon here there is
in fact more than one Jenny already on
my mind subscribes so don't assume it's
the right Jenny
because we have a few Jenny's already
but you know Jenny shared a link to one
of my recent videos she shared a link
I think via Facebook doesn't matter she
shared a link to my video that was
discussing the problem of palm oil and
vegan misconceptions about vegan
hysteria about palm oil farming in
particular and she got an extreme
reaction from a guy who is living in
Bangkok Thailand a white man who works
for the United Nations so he's very much
a foreigner and I've encountered this
many many times in humanitarian work in
life abroad in life as an expatriate
said etcetera what this guy was doing
fundamentally is just as stupid as the
attitude of the woman at that meeting of
the Nazi Party in World War two or her
attitude when she arrived at the meeting
she left that meeting a little bit wiser
which is that he was stuck in and he was
absolutely adamant that it's impossible
that these people do this and he backed
this up with and this is always
misleading anecdotal evidence
you know from isolated
experience he's visited a farm he's
visited a durian farm he's you know I'm
I myself as a child I've visited a you
know a sheep farm
I've visited a goat farm and yeah it
looks beautiful there are there are
goats wandering on the hillside you
can't see how perverse it is how violent
it is how terrible it is by just looking
at that snapshot of goats wandering in a
field and you can't even understand how
unnatural it is without comparing it to
conditions in the wild now our most
notorious for raising this when
challenging pet ownership of saying no
no look at how feral dogs live look at
how wild dogs live and now question
again the morality of what you're doing
with with dog ownership but even with
meat agriculture or with raising animals
for milk or leather when you look at
those goats standing in a in a grassy
field on the side of a mountain
it may look beautiful and they look
peaceful peaceful is a word that springs
to mind when you walk out and see that
the goats are all female where are the
male's the goats are all the same age
right there are no elderly goats they
don't have a normal pack formation have
you ever seen how goats really live in
the wild where there are old and young
and male and female and the male's
compete for dominance and they have
predators and cetera et cetera
you know actually what you're looking at
just by the absence of the males already
is profoundly distorted and as with
chickens and everything else that these
questions are killing all the mails or
castrating the males raising them for me
to what-have-you but there are these
various ways in which human beings have
already shaped the whole scenario even
if you're just looking at that snapshot
and the step beyond that as I've already
said in one video is of not looking at
the snapshot not looking at one moment
in time but looking at the whole life
cycle of saying ok this is a moment in a
cycle that includes slaughter but of
course it also includes breeding and it
includes feeding
includes the question of where does that
food come from you know now I know talk
to people already know this stuff but
I'm drawing attention to the fact that
you know there's a different type of
thinking involved for a vegan seeing the
world in those terms of refusing to buy
into the peaceful snapshot you know a
snapshot of nature or of a national
industry and for some countries that
vision you know the goats on the hill is
a source of national pride definitely
for Spain you know in the Pyrenees lost
piranhas and you know for for
Switzerland for many countries that you
know the mountainside agriculture
probably northern Italy - that's
actually a source of pride they see that
as beautiful they see that as part of
their national glory or heritage or
what-have-you and understandably you
know if it's just a snapshot if it's
just a postcard it looks beautiful but I
think veganism in principle is in part a
refusal to buy the postcard and
insistence and moving beyond the
postcard but nationalism itself is a
distraction
the notion these are our people these
are good people good people do do don't
do bad things and it's sickening to me
but this guy in Bangkok whom Jenny was
talking to just as a foreign expert I
mean he had obviously bought in so
deeply to this mindfuck for a lack of a
better word part in my course language
that he didn't want to accept you you
know sort of violently refused to accept
the very obviously self obviously true
things self-evidently true things that I
say about what goes on in a durian farm
and on many other types of fruit farms I
just mentioned now in Southeast Asia you
know you may read things referring to
that they have to kill like squirrels
with a with a rifle the animals of a
squirrel is not quite accurate there are
animals there that are that are
sometimes called raccoons that are not
reckons they're animals called a civet
cats there are a lot of things besides I
mean I mentioned monkeys and pigs there
were all kinds of animals that come to
eat fruit on
farm and that indeed there's a man with
a rifle to kill those animals and of
course you know there are other methods
of putting up nets and putting out
poison there are all kinds of ways that
people are killing animals every day and
again you know I wish I could say I
don't understand how people convince
themselves this can't possibly be true
even though it's so logical it's so
obvious it's self-evident but I know
exactly how they convince themselves on
the one hand it's these factors I've
described its kind of phony nationalism
and in the other hand it's having been
there it's having seen the postcard of
course you can visit a farm you visit a
fruit farm for five minutes say oh it's
beautiful and leave but just as I was
describing moving beyond the postcard
with understanding you know whether it's
cattle or goats the goats in the side of
the mountain there's also moving beyond
the static image the postcard image of
the fruit hanging on the tree to seeing
a whole cycle which includes these of
pesticides and everything else now some
vegans don't want to do that because
some vegans want to believe fruit
agriculture is perfectly moral or green
agriculture is perfectly moral whereas
meat agriculture is totally evil I got
one email from someone who claimed to
have a degree in the sciences of some
kind and said they didn't believe grain
farming killed anything it was I don't
know where he got you to plumber um and
I remember I didn't feel like writing a
long email back I just sent a link to
the Wikipedia entry for you know
groundhogs in Saskatchewan it's a
specific species Richardson's ground
squirrel we call them groundhogs prairie
dogs the names we use are inaccurate and
English is scientifically inaccurate via
the Wikipedia article dissection forum
pest control for the speech you know
there is a course a tremendous culture
and Industry of human beings killing
these animals so that we can get grown
do you think you think anything in
nature resembles a modern wheat farm you
think anything in the jungle resembles
an orchard producing Makos
thank we I digress um I've encountered
this kind of mentality among white
Western people in Southeast Asia again
and again what they're wanting to buy in
there was an Italian guy who I just met
I met him once alone and then met him
with his wife and kid when I was doing
humanitarian work in northwestern Laos
and I knew the statistics off the top of
my head at that time it was both my job
and my interest but I bumped into this
guy and he had done some volunteer work
for two weeks or something and then had
gone back to Italy and come back on
vacation with his wife and he said to me
with total arrogant self-confidence
nobody here is poor nobody here is
starving that's all nonsense made up by
Western governments made nonsense made
about Western governments to justify
foreign intervention this is kind of
left-wing conspiracy thinking and he you
know he was a left-wing [ __ ]
this is just an excuse for you know for
people like me to come and do charity
work yeah right we're making up excuses
to go live in that bamboo hut huh um and
he said the people here are you know
they have no problem with poverty or
starvation because they can go out in
the woods and gather food anytime they
can feed themselves by just wandering in
the forest sort of Hill glamorized image
of what hunting and gathering is like
and I just said to him offhand I need
the exact percentage of the time I said
something like in this province 40% of
people are dependent on foreign donated
food and otherwise they would starve or
flee you know now 40 percent is not the
number but I knew the percent of time
and it was a very high percentage like
that for that province it's not for the
whole country
it's for that that little area and that
was an area that was devastated in the
war with the Americans blah blah blah
there are historical reasons as to why
it was so so desperate and again in
reality if they weren't getting that
food donated to them they wouldn't
starve they would migrate they would
just go somewhere else where they could
find a job and find food which I'm not
saying is a good thing I'm just saying
this the reality they wouldn't sit in
one place and starve to death
they would walk relatively short
distance I have probably run away to
Thailand and you know it work as illegal
migrants in Thailand if that kind of
assistance stopped if people like me
working working with the agency if the
agency I worked with stopped handing
them sacks of rice that you know had a
stamp on them saying you know gift of
Finland with the UN logo on it or
whatever um anyway I remember this guy
the arrogance was so great and his sense
of nationalism his sense of pride and
he's not lotion he's not from that
country he's Italian but his sense of
you know these are good people you know
that somehow I was taking away the the
pride of these people by being realistic
was it was it was absurd and and deeply
offensive to me and I remember how
mocking and scornful he was and again
what I was saying was so inherently
plausible I said to him look I
understand you've witnessed people
walking around in the forest gathering
food which can be very impressive if you
go with indigenous tribal people who
know how to gather food out of the
forest you walk around the jungle with
tribal people in order to do that
they walk around and they see something
and dig up the roots and pull it out wow
it makes a big impression on you I said
but that kind of gathering of food it
can feed a tribe of five people a tribe
of thirty people maximum and those
groups the mountain top groups they
lived in small small groups of people
you know each mountain top at just a
couple people with with some of those
groups said that that can't feed 10,000
people it's not a staple of the diet for
tens of thousands of people that's not
the way this is not comparable to like
the green industry in Canada filling up
huge silos and trucks with enormous of
quantities of grain that feed millions
of people in the cities and the other
thing I said to him was and you know you
must realize the jungle is all being cut
down as tragic but you would see it you
know I remember okay one entity leads to
another but I remember there was one
village I arrived in to do humanitarian
work and had a peculiar sort of Vista
because it was actually
machette on a sort of plateau at the top
of a mountain it's not quite worth sure
but you go up a mountain and there's a
flat area at the top of the mound you go
down so you would see around in a in a
peculiar way and I remember the first
day I walked to work there I walked and
you could see the stark difference there
was a line on the horizon where the
deforestation was you know like so you
know there's forest or jungle what
everyone say and there's a line and the
ground is just bare you know is it
barren and I thought to myself you know
you do a lot of thing you do stuff when
you're the only person who speaks
English in the village because otherwise
I was speaking just in lotion all day
every day you do a lot of thinking
yourself you make an art of having a
conversation with yourself because
nobody else speaks English but I've
thought to myself and chuckled oh haha I
bet you can see that line move you know
every few days you know you thought that
and went to work and a couple days later
I went to work again and the line had
moved and I felt emotionally devastated
you know I felt terrible looking at that
I thought oh my god you know I was just
joking with myself but it's literally
true you know that's the pace of
deforestation here within a couple of
days you can see the last of the jungle
being erased anyway and those people
those indigenous people who know how to
hunt and know how to gather herbs and
you know know how to dig up roots out of
the earth to try to survive in the
jungle their skills become useless and
you know the ecological and social
impacts of that are really profound and
I both read reports about that I studied
that on paper but I also saw it face to
face and and what-have-you but it is
sickening to me how this type of denial
of what you see with your own eyes
denying the reality you see directly
whether it's on the farm or in the
forest and how this can be linked to
this kind of nationalism this kind of
phony nationalism even when it's it's
not your nation even when it's not your
business even when your desire your ego
etc is actually not involved
in any way I know I had more anecdotes
to tell about this but you know I think
I'm gonna try to be a bit more synoptic
here this is one of the things that
makes government policy itself so scary
is that a small number of people in
charge can simply have unrealistic views
of the world and they can ignore
problems even when they're quite evident
in front of their eyes and then those
problems can get worse and worse whether
it entails the deaths of millions of
people or the deaths of millions of
animals or the total destruction of a
river or the destruction of a lake or
what have you the capacity for human
beings to only acknowledge evidence that
confirms what they want to believe is
terrifying not in a moment not in a
snapshot not in one moment of time but
over years Uemura so I did all this
research during my years and said these
days including research on agriculture
it's just always been the kind of guy I
am for me our grocer has always been an
important part of the fabric of society
and economy and so on before I was vegan
and so on by complete luck when I was
taking a flight to a remote part of Laos
where I was going to do humanitarian
work there was this guy waiting for the
flight he was German and I struck up
conversation them the flight was delayed
and was actually cancelled eventually
but we waited for some time before they
told us it was canceled and I started
talking to him and he was the German
government attache this is a guy getting
a salary paid for by the German
government who had been sent to Lausanne
and was in charge of their development
projects their charity projects that
were really focused that time in
developing the rubber industry so I'd
done enough reading I really did
understand the economics of rubber
production and what was going on the
industry at that point up to up to a
certain level so I started to ask him
some very intelligent and specific
questions but what was going on with the
project and the the remaking of the
country because country was being
transformed by planting rubber crops and
so on
now he said a number of things to me
that were kind of factually false and
observed and this guy he's not part of
the communist government he's also not
elected he's he's not his nationalism is
attached to Germany not Laos but I
remember so we talk and there are these
various problems ecological and ethical
and economic but one of the most
dismissive things he said was I just
pointed to him I said look you know um
well I don't understand about these
plans and projections anytime you look
at a chart historically of the value of
rubber it goes up but it also goes down
I don't understand why this project
which is you know destroying the forests
and changing military lives I don't know
why it assumes rubber will always be so
valuable why you know rubber will never
decline in price historically every so
often the price of rubber comes crashing
down and I also said technologically I
knew some other details there are more
and more substitutes there are more and
more things being made out of special
plastics that don't require organic
rubber rubber from a that don't require
rubber from a natural tree and he
laughed he laughed in a totally
self-confident way and you said hahahaha
China wants to buy so much rubber the
price will never go down if somebody in
the industry said that to you
like if an employee of coca-cola
corporation tells you that coca-cola is
never gonna go out of style okay you
work for Coke you're biased I understand
you know if he were an employee of a
rubber corporation that'd be one thing
if he were a member of the Lao Communist
Party that'd be nothing to remember the
local government but this is supposed to
be an independent charity worker and
scholar representing the public interest
and the plight of the poor and doing
development projects to help you know
and it's so easy for him to ignore the
disasters that are right in front of his
face
now I had another experience I won't
tell the story still go on too long but
I had experience with one of my bosses
in humanitarian work where he was
literally ignoring a forest being cut
down where the forest hadn't just been
cut down it was burned black
a field of black ashes and he was
telling himself the forest was still
there
another example actually of a wetlands
being destroyed and legally on paper the
I won't mention one of the big
international NGOs they were pretending
that wetlands were still there they were
receiving money millions of dollars from
Europe millions of euros they should say
from Europe to do this project to this
wetlands the wetland doesn't exist
anymore
the Chinese Housing Development and a
new stadium that were built on those
wetlands they were getting paid money to
preserve the wetlands wetlands were gone
now that that case was just corruption
but I mean you know with my boss and not
seeing the forest be destroyed these are
related examples from my perspective the
Italian guy who could not see starvation
when it was in front of him people who
go on vacation and cannot see
deforestation when it's right in front
of them going to Switzerland and seeing
the animals in the field like goats in
the side of the mountain and just seeing
it as peaceful ultimately the contrast
you have to be able to make I would say
is based on the wild and thus habitat
conservation is so important in my
approach to veganism ecology and related
politics you can ride a bicycle through
the same part of Laos where I rode a
bicycle and you can fail to see the
deforestation why because you see plants
of some kind by the side of the road you
don't know that what a forest looks like
in that part of Laos is a 30 meter
canopy all right when you're talking
about habitats that can support
elephants you're not talking about trees
that are only 1 meter higher than the
elephant ok you're talking about intact
old-growth tropical rainforest we have
levels and levels of trees going up
ultimately 30 meters and where the trees
you know form a cave-like structure over
your heads and block of the Sun all
these and you know there's this level of
mist that's trapped under leaves it's
like a little mini atmosphere that's why
people call it a rainforest and so on
all right that's that's forest all right
but
all kinds of tourists go through Laos
and Yunnan and because of our trees of
any kind of our trees as thick as my arm
that are two meters high they think
they're looking at a forest right and
they're not they're looking at total
ecological devastation in a valley that
used to have tigers and elephants
I mean Tigers are apex predators and
then going down the list used to have an
amazing variety of other smaller animals
that human beings don't tend to care as
much about emotionally right you can't
solve the problem without first being
able to perceive the problem and I think
this is something that ecology has in
common with questions of ethics it's so
easy to go to northern Laos or downtown
Toronto and to not see poverty to not
see homelessness to not see drug
addiction I trust me small towns in
northwestern Laos have huge drug
problems huge as a tourist you wouldn't
see them as a foreigner you don't see
them if you're not looking for them
right you have to take a real interest
you have to know what to look for or
know who to talk to you just ask about
it you know and people of many way if
you know how to ask people will tell you
people say oh yeah you know my cousin
became a drug addict and over over there
there's a hut where the drug addicts go
to get high you know if you're just
walking past it looks like any other hut
in a village full of huts right you
don't solve the problem you don't
address the problem without first
perceiving the problem and I started up
by saying nationalism and the assumption
that these are our people and these are
good people that blinds people to the
problem even when they're looking at it
because what they see may just be the
goats in the field right what they see
may just be a nice village full of huts
Oh what they see may be the grassy side
of a mountain and they don't realize
that the grass may look green and
beautiful but actually that grass
indicates devastation because they're
not thinking about what kind of ecology
what kind of habits
was there before human beings cut it
down and destroyed it mine I don't know
I've said in earlier videos you know so
much was wrong with the paradigm we had
in 2001 the anarcho primitive s paradigm
but one strength that had one profound
advantage it had over what we're doing
with veganism and ecological politics
today was that it included the contrast
between civilization and the wild the
question of what wilderness is now where
I differ from them is that I do not
think the wilderness is an ideal to be
aspired to I don't think we should
aspire to be wild ourselves or to have a
society that resembles nature that
nature is a standard for purity or
goodness I don't believe that however I
do believe that the wilderness and
intact habitat are in this sense a a
crucial criterion in analysis for
understanding what's wrong what's
unsustainable what must be problematized
what the problems are we need to have
solutions for here and now